content/misc.md, before:

+++
title = "Matthew Niemiro"
+++

Interesting papers, resources, etc. (math-related):

1. [Quiver](https://q.uiver.app/): a modern commutative diagram editor.
2. [Grothendieck-Serre correspondences](https://webusers.imj-prg.fr/~leila.schneps/grothendieckcircle/Letters/GS.pdf): a collection of correspondences between Alexander Grothendieck and Jean-Pierre Serre.
3. [A visualization of the Hopf fibration](https://nilesjohnson.net/hopf.html), Niles Johnson.
4. [Tohoku](https://inference-review.com/article/tohoku) by Rick Jardine. An informative, if not a little sensational, article about Grothendieck's Tohoku paper.
5. [Lose your fear of tensor products.](https://www.dpmms.cam.ac.uk/~wtg10/tensors3.html)

Some other academic pages/blogs:
1. [Jesper Grodal.](http://web.math.ku.dk/~jg/)
2. [Maxime Razi.](https://sites.google.com/view/maxime-ramzi-en/home?authuser=0)
3. [Tom Leinster.](https://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/~tl/)
4. [Bjørn Ian Dundas.](https://folk.uib.no/nmabd/)
5. [Rok Gregoric.](https://web.ma.utexas.edu/users/gregoric/)

Some papers:

1. [The Yoneda embedding is natural](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.12575), Maxime Razi (2022).
2. [Definability, interpretations and étale fundamental groups](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05052), Romin Abdolahzadi and Boris Zilber (2020).
3. [Codensity and the ultrafilter monad](https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3606), Tom Leinster (2013).
4. [Gödel diffeomorphisms](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.06735), Matthew Foreman (2020). A self-diffeomorphism of the torus need not be "measure-theoretically isomorphic" to its inverse (defined on page 4). This paper explains how certain statements (e.g. the Riemann hyothesis, Goldbach's conjecture) are equivalent to certain self-diffeomorphisms of the torus being isomorphic to their inverses(!)

Biographical writing:

1. [Daniel Quillen's memorial in Notices.](https://www.ams.org/notices/201210/rtx121001392p.pdf)
2. [Life and work of Friedrich Hirzebruch.](https://people.mpim-bonn.mpg.de/zagier/files/doi/10.1365/s13291-015-0114-1/dmv-FH.pdf)
3. [Mikhail Postnikov's life, work, and legacy.](https://www.impan.pl/shop/publication/transaction/download/product/85974) Kind of hard to find.

Commit message:

added four color theorem proof paper

content/misc.md, after:

+++
title = "Matthew Niemiro"
+++

Interesting papers, resources, etc. (math-related):

1. [Quiver](https://q.uiver.app/): a modern commutative diagram editor.
2. [Grothendieck-Serre correspondences](https://webusers.imj-prg.fr/~leila.schneps/grothendieckcircle/Letters/GS.pdf): a collection of correspondences between Alexander Grothendieck and Jean-Pierre Serre.
3. [A visualization of the Hopf fibration](https://nilesjohnson.net/hopf.html), Niles Johnson.
4. [Tohoku](https://inference-review.com/article/tohoku) by Rick Jardine. An informative, if not a little sensational, article about Grothendieck's Tohoku paper.
5. [Lose your fear of tensor products.](https://www.dpmms.cam.ac.uk/~wtg10/tensors3.html)

Some other academic pages/blogs:
1. [Jesper Grodal.](http://web.math.ku.dk/~jg/)
2. [Maxime Razi.](https://sites.google.com/view/maxime-ramzi-en/home?authuser=0)
3. [Tom Leinster.](https://www.maths.ed.ac.uk/~tl/)
4. [Bjørn Ian Dundas.](https://folk.uib.no/nmabd/)
5. [Rok Gregoric.](https://web.ma.utexas.edu/users/gregoric/)

Some papers:

1. [The Yoneda embedding is natural](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.12575), Maxime Razi (2022).
2. [Definability, interpretations and étale fundamental groups](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05052), Romin Abdolahzadi and Boris Zilber (2020).
3. [Codensity and the ultrafilter monad](https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3606), Tom Leinster (2013).
4. [Gödel diffeomorphisms](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.06735), Matthew Foreman (2020). A self-diffeomorphism of the torus need not be "measure-theoretically isomorphic" to its inverse (defined on page 4). This paper explains how certain statements (e.g. the Riemann hyothesis, Goldbach's conjecture) are equivalent to certain self-diffeomorphisms of the torus being isomorphic to their inverses(!)
5. [A non-constructive proof of the Four Colour Theorem](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.09835), D.M. Jackson and L.B. Richmond (2022).

Biographical writing:

1. [Daniel Quillen's memorial in Notices.](https://www.ams.org/notices/201210/rtx121001392p.pdf)
2. [Life and work of Friedrich Hirzebruch.](https://people.mpim-bonn.mpg.de/zagier/files/doi/10.1365/s13291-015-0114-1/dmv-FH.pdf)
3. [Mikhail Postnikov's life, work, and legacy.](https://www.impan.pl/shop/publication/transaction/download/product/85974) Kind of hard to find.
